# Introduction

The Robotics Toolbox (RTB) (The brainchild of Peter Corke) provides a range of functions that are useful in the study and simulation of classical arm-type robotics including kinematics, dynamics and trajectory generation. The current RTB is designed for use within MATLAB consisting of a range of scripts using .m-files and has been used in a wide range of applications including research and teaching. With the RTB currently in its 10th release, the toolbox provides users with mature code, straightforward algorithms and high-level documentation including “Robotics Toolbox for MATLAB release 9” and the in-depth book “Robotics, Vision and Control.” While the RTB has been designed for MATLAB, the high  financial implications of obtaining a MATLAB license is a barrier for current and future users to access the toolbox. While the RTB can be used in Octave, an open source mathematical environment and there has been attempts to create a python implementation, thus far none of these options have been true replacements for the MATLAB version. Therefore this project will seek to redesign the RTB for python allowing for a majority of the functionality of the toolbox to be used in Python. As Python is developed under an open source license the software is more accessible and therefore widens the range of access to the RTB. Secondly via creating a Python RTB users are given options in which language they can use the with the RTB. Finally, as the RTB has been developed over 20 years and has code written in a straightforward manner for the ease of understanding, the computational efficiency of the RTB has suffered and therefor via the porting of the toolbox the code can be re-designed to ensure computational efficiency while maintaining ease of understanding for the user.
